I’ve been reading about the controversy that Sarah Silverman has stirred up by chastising her friends for working during this strike for A23.

As long as these companies follow the strike demand guidelines set forth by SAG/AFTRA and the WGA, I think we should encourage individuals to work for independent film companies. However, streaming services should not be allowed to showcase this material until they agree to the same terms.

New companies SHOULD be encouraged to emerge to compete with those that prioritize profits over fair wages! By fostering healthy competition, we can start to break the monopoly of the big studios, which have grown way too large and powerful.

We need to find investors with a passion for film and television to connect to unemployed producers and UPMs, and learn from them how they REALLY CAN start their own production companies and studios. After all, many of the current studios began with just one person and a dream. It's time to challenge the established studios that have completely lost touch with humanity because they are only focusing on serving their shareholders.

Too many production companies exploit our passion by paying us less than what our skills and dedication to them deserve. This practice is both unfair and disrespectful.

Compensation should always be based on the value a crew member brings to the production, skills, qualifications, and market standards.

Many of us are well aware of time-card manipulation and other practices that are blatantly against labor laws that continues in many facets of the entertainment industry. Most of us, at one time or another, have held our tongues out of fear that we will never be hired again. We are often told that if we don’t like it, we can be easily replaced with those who WILL take the abuse.

Let's not forget that we can create fresh opportunities and systems that work.

UPMs, executive producers, and others should actively seek investors to build new production companies and studios with strong moral values that can outshine the existing ones in the industry. We should all be using our connections and looking for visionaries who could be the future "Walt Disney" or the "Warner Brothers" of this generation in 2023.

These strikes, even when resolved, only end when just a FEW of the intolerable issues we face have been addressed; there are so many more.

Productions still demand long working hours, with days stretching well beyond the standard 8-hour workday. We’ve all been on shoots that go on for 12 to 16 hours or even longer. The demand of these schedules leads to physical and mental exhaustion, affecting the well-being and safety of the crew. These hours also rob us of our personal lives, strain relationships and marriages, leave children feeling abandoned, and contribute to breakups, divorces, depression, health problems, accidents, and even suicides.

A speech once given to me on set, way back when I was a fresh PA, went as follows, “I am the 1st AD of this show. Before we start, I just want to say, if at any time during this production you feel you are being treated unfairly, feel as if you are being placed in an unfair or dangerous position, or that you may be experiencing any form of sexual harassment, please understand you can quit at any time. I don’t want to hear about it. There are plenty of people out there in line behind you who would love to take your place so, either keep your mouth f**king shut, or leave! That’s is how the Hollywood game is played!”

On another union show I had an AD say, “I may scream at you. I may call you horrible things. I may make you so mad you want to walk off my set…but I promise you…when all this is over, I’m also the guy who will buy you a beer!” I quit that day.

I have suffered multiple injuries over the years due to the inhumane treatment I have received on various sets. I am partially blind in my left eye due to heat stroke I suffered because a production couldn’t provide me with water fast enough in a remote environment that was 103 degrees Fahrenheit. In fact, I was hospitalized with rhabdomyolysis as my body started breaking down my muscles and the muscle fibers began clogging and shutting down my kidneys.

I also have a permanent knee injury after being asked to walk out into a swamp. I began sinking in the mud like quicksand. I had to be rescued by crew members throwing me a rope and, when pulling, my kneecap was dislocated.

I have permanent nerve damage due to another on-set accident, that I did not cause, that crushed my right leg hard enough to damage my femoral nerve. I have no feeling on the outside of my right leg from my knee to my hip.

During my time in film I have seen fellow crew members literally die of heat stroke, fall asleep driving home and crash, get stepped on by a horse, fall off a truck and sustain a head injury, have the corneas of his eyes sanded-off by material from a blank gunshot, etc.

I have had multiple friends in the film industry commit suicide.

This needs to change!

Movies and television shows can’t be made without us! We hold the keys.

We all have unique and individual skills that we bring to the table. Studio executives can’t make shows without us yet, when we work, they always take home millions of dollars and millions more in bonuses!

On June 1, 2023, NBC’s Jennifer Liu reported, “David Zaslav, CEO of Warner Bros. Discovery Inc., was paid $498,915,318 between 2018 and 2022, according to a Times analysis of executive compensation at 10 publicly held media and entertainment companies. That's a staggering 384 times the average pay of a Hollywood writer.”

“Overall, average pay for Hollywood's top execs climbed to $28 million in 2021, up 53% from 2018.”

Film industry workers should unite to demand fair compensation and better working conditions. If studios refuse to comply, seeking opportunities in independent film and creating new studios with supportive investors may be a way to challenge the current system dominated by corporate greed.

This is not just about actors and writers. This is about all those who work in production in any capacity. In fact, this sort of corporate abuse seems to extend to almost every industry in America. It’s time we, the workers, show the bosses of this nation who REALLY provides them with their paychecks.